Topics covered

Docker containers and Docker-compose
NoSQL
Marking Scheme (Total 100 points)

Dockerize the app to collect data from Twitter (30 points)
Publish the docker image of your app in docker hub in your account (20 points)
Change the app to store data in mongoDb. Run the app with mongoDB (using images from docker-hub) using docker-compose (50 points). Depending on how nicely you do this the marks can vary from 30-50.
Mode of submission zip upload

Format of submission Your zip should contain the following

1) src folder with all your source code

2) DockerFile for your app you used to dockerize the app.

3) docker-compose.yaml Final docker-compose file to run your app and the MongoDB together.



Instructions

1) Collecting Data from Twitter

Generate an account on twitter and create an app to get credentials for getting data

httpsdeveloper.twitter.comenapps

Sample of how to create an account

httpstowardsdatascience.comaccess-data-from-twitter-api-using-r-and-or-python-b8ac342d3efe

This might be old so look up the latest instructions or just follow getting started in the Twitter API web page

As a Data scientist, you would be spending time collecting data from a different sources. Take this as an exercise on learning how to get data from public sources based on documentation.

If you can't finish this step send me an email and I will share my API keys with you for this step.

2) Dockerize the app to collect data from Twitter

- Create a small python code that get tweets from Twitter using some tags like corona or ukraine.

- save the json data (you can filter the json to have some important fields only) into a file.

hint you can use this notebook which has the code to do the above steps  httpscampusvirtual.ub.edupluginfile.php5320583mod_assignintroTwitter.ipynb 

Now your main task is to dockerize your application. This means creating a docker image that contains this code and required dependency so that anyone can run the docker image to run your application.

Hint httpsrunnable.comdockerpythondockerize-your-python-application

3) Publish the Docker image of your app in the docker hub in your account

4) Docker compose with mongo

The sample code gets data from Twitter and saves it a JSON. Change it to save the data in MongoDB using pymongo.

Use mongoDB docker image to run it locally and then connect to that docker using pymongo library

Create a docker-compose file to run your updated application and mongoDB together.



Hint2 Use the new twitter_updated.ipynb with keys embedded and it will work

httpscampusvirtual.ub.edupluginfile.php5320583mod_assignintroTwitter_updated.ipynb 